Y'all did not get married before the war? It was
five years before we got married. We dated five
years, and he was in the Marine Corps at Camp
Felton. And I taught a year of school, and then I got
on the American airline and flew out to
California, and we got married, and we thought
we'd be together six weeks. And they had the
problem with the landing boats out in the marshals
on the coral reefs, and they had to redesign the
landing boats And so we lived in Laguna Beach for
six months. And he left, I think, on January 44.
Went to Maui was the first landing they had.
I think that's the name of it. How many landings did
he make with the Marines? Two or three. Saipan is
where he was hit with a grenade. He was wounded, I
don't know how, where was he injured? Well, he got a
hand grenade in his lungs and he had one under the
bone here and the scar always vibrated. How that
didn't cut his tubular vein, I don't know. and
stand up and go in and pull these out of his lungs.
And there was some they never could get that they
watched for years. But it
was a Japanese tag in the tree that's written
through his name. And he was evacuated. And I heard
from him 40 days after he went into combat. He
always told me he would never get a letter after he
went into combat. He always would get a letter from
a dead man. So there are 40 days that you didn't hear
anything. But I didn't hear anything. But on
Monday, when the battle was over, I told my father I
would hear from him that week. And my sister got a
letter at the post office and ran all the way home.
So I got ready to cry. It was a hard week. And my daddy
came in. He had asked me early. He was going off with
the telegrams. He had asked them when they had a
death telegram, could he go? Because one woman had
been given one that her son died, her only child had
died, and she was in an office in a building all by
herself all day. They just went up and handed it.
And so I went down and handed my letter to my father.
He didn't want me hearing something without him
being there. And I handed it to him, and he handed it
back to me. I said, Jack's alive. I didn't say
Jack's injured. Jack's alive. And he said, you'll
have to read it to me, I can't see it. And I looked and
he was crying. And Jacket was already in the
hospital then in Hawaii.
And they always talk about Roosevelt not letting
anybody see him in a wheelchair. He came into their
hospital in a wheelchair. He came to this, didn't
he? Franklin Roosevelt did. In Hawaii. Don't you
think that's interesting? You bet. They always
said that he never would allow himself to be. But
these real veterans saw him in a wheelchair.
That's it. Now, Dr. Williams was in the hospital
about how long? Forgotten by now. He was alive and
excellent. See, I got to know other people that
didn't get to the hospital where they lost their
husbands. And so, you know, we were a group. We
partied together, you know, and they got home.
Right. About when did he get home? When did you all
get back together? The war was over. And, you know,
you had to have so many points to be out. Well, they
kept reducing the points. And I was teaching
school, and I gave him notice because he couldn't
come to me. home from the war and come to Redford,
Virginia while his wife kept teaching school. So I
gave him notice and he kept moving up the time. And
so finally I met him in Roanoke and I had reserved us
a hotel room in Roanoke. But the next day we got up
and got on the bus and went to his mother and daddy's
home. But his brother had brought his mother over
for dinner that night. She couldn't wait till the
next day. And I didn't think, I hadn't thought that
would be cruel. for him to get off the plane and
let's have a place to sleep that night over there.
We held that room for a week with his luggage in
there, stuff he brought back. And we only stayed
that first night. We were out visiting our two
families with pen men on the room in the hotel. And I
said to him, now, this is an interesting thing. If
you're going to be a lawyer, let's go to Harvard.
Let's go to the best. He said, no, I'm going to go
into education. Men are needed in high schools.
And he had learned from that short period of time
that it took a man to have the discipline that was
needed in high schools. See, that's what's wrong
now with the school. It's not the teachers. It's
not the classroom. It's the students. It's the
lack of discipline. How did you all happen to end up
at Emory instead of some other school? Why Emory
University? He had a good friend that was a
graduate of Emory. And he knew it as a method of
school. He always went to private schools, so he
taught in . But Charlie was a good friend of his in
Hawaii. And Charlie was an Emory graduate. And I
think that had an influence on him. He probably
said, that'd be a good school to get a degree in. And
he just announced, no, I'm going to Emory, and I'm
going to go into education. But his professor
said, no, you can't. Now, how long were y'all at
Emory before you came to Clemson? From March 23rd
or something like that
of 40, I have to count those years back then. I told
you we came in August of 48,
didn't I? We came to Clemson. And that meant this
would have been 46. We came in March, and we left in
August of 48. So we were on the Emory campus in a
trailer for all that time. He got a master's
degree. And we didn't incur to us that it was
anything. We didn't invite his parents. They had
come to Quantico to see him be commissioned. And
when he got his doctorate, he went back to Emory.
Now, the GED, was there a GED scholar? GRE. There
was something that, when we were ready to go to
Emory, one of his Emory professors was on that
board and told Jack to meet him at the train station
and wanted him to take one, but he waited to go to LSU
or to Columbia in order to get this scholarship or
graduate degree. And Jack said no, he knew what he
was getting into. I think that's a graduate record
exam. I think that is. Anyway, this Emory
professor had him come to meet him at the train, and
tell him that he wanted to have one. And Jack said
no. And that he knew what he was getting into with
Emory. So he went back to Emory. Or maybe the first
time, I don't know. But anyway, I think Charles
Harris influenced him. And
that's the only thing I know, because he just knew
where he was going to do what he wanted to do. He
didn't consult me. So y'all came here in the fall of
48, and you're here until? 66. 66. And then to
Austin for two years, to Tennessee for two years,
and then to Texas in November, to Texas A&M in
November 1, 1970.
When did you get to College Station? Did he precede
you? I came in January. OK. I had to sell a house. You
had to sell a house. And we had to work at a place to
leave Mary with some relatives, but she could
finish out of school. When you came, what were your
goals as the university president's wife?
Well, I didn't feel like they had changed from
anything I had been here when he was vice
president. I didn't have the same title, but I
never got excited over any change. Isn't that
terrible? I just took everything as it came and did
the best I could. And everything included what?
Whatever came. Well, if we were to meet somebody
for a meeting or we were to get on the plane and go
someplace or if he called and said, I'm bringing
somebody by the house, make a reservation at the
restaurant.
I was just running my home like I always did and
doing whatever came along and going to what came
along. I didn't feel like that I was anything. I was
just Jack's wife. How many nights did you all have
unscheduled? Well, that would have varied, but we
didn't have one. He had a full schedule. I could go
pull out those little black books and show you how
busy he was. And then he joined the boards. He was on
several boards and he had those meetings too. And
he did buy me some stock.
So
I could go to the meetings.
I'm trying to think of what. I'll tell you in a
minute. They were cotton. Oh, Anderson Clayton?
Anderson Clayton. And he bought me 100 shares of
Anderson Clayton so I could go to the stock
meetings. But I didn't go to the stock meetings
when he went to Dallas. And before he left there,
they asked him to be on one of the bank boards,
national bank boards. And he came in and said they
asked me to be on the grant board. And I said, I don't
know what to tell him about this town. He didn't
want to really do anything with it. And I said,
well, you already have a conflict with the
December meetings because he was on enough boards
in Dallas that he really did. And so I gave him an
answer.
But Anderson-Clayton was a good association for
him. Do I remember his playing golf sometimes as a
relaxation? Well, I did that. When we lived at
Knoxville, I had said, we're living here, and
there are all these resorts up here in the
mountains, and it's time. The children are going
to get gone, and we can just have a good time, and we
should play golf. So I went over to the club and
arranged for us to take lessons. He was in Memphis
part of the time, and he was in Knoxville part of the
time. So he didn't get all the lessons. But there
came a time when we had secondhand clubs to start
with, when he said go on out and start. And we did.
And that's what got Jack into building, redoing
the golf course at Texas A&M. He'd gotten
interested in golf. And he had plans for a second
golf course, mentally. I heard him say that he
thought they should build, that A&M should have
another golf course that wasn't enough for that
size student body. But of course he didn't live to
see that happen. But that's how he felt about
coffee. You know, you're competing with
yourself. I played with him when I was so cold that
the tears would flow and he'd say, let's play the
black nine. And I wouldn't tell him I was too cold to
play, but I played. I just turned my head so he
wouldn't see that I was crying. When you all were in
College Station, what did you do for relaxation?
Nothing exceptional. I just lived a normal life
and read and did what I had to do with my daily
chores. Time passed. Time passed. I didn't ever
have any time on my hands. And let's say y'all were
members of the A&M Methodist, you attended the
Methodist church there. Y'all have been, were you
both lifetime Methodists? Jack was. He joined us.
The Baptist church, he didn't belong to a church.
He joined the church in Emory University. Oh, I
see. His grandfather was a primitive Baptist. I
see. But he went to church, but not regularly. He
was not a regular church member. Oh, going up. Oh, I
see. At one time, one of our ministers stopped,
told him he was being moved, and he called Jack and
said, I have to talk to you before I leave. Would you
meet me in... on the campus. And Jack went down
there and he said, I can't leave until I tell you you
should go in the ministry. Jack had worked in the
church. He'd been chairman of the board. He'd
taught students. Now, by what age was he then? It
was when we lived here. Oh, here at Clemson? Yeah,
here at Clemson. Oh. And Jack had worked in the
church. had taught the students, and then he was
teaching later on. He taught his senior adult
class. And he did whatever came along with it, but
he never belonged to anything very long before he
was an officer. He had a way of sort of keeping
things running smoothly, I think it was. I think it
was a talent. Of all of the things he did, all of the
different tasks, here Houston, Tennessee. No,
no, not going to ask the negative. What do you think
he enjoyed the most?
Well, he had friends he enjoyed, but he enjoyed
taking his children on a vacation trip. He enjoyed
being home. All right, but then professionally.
Professionally. Which of his professional
accomplishments or tasks do you think he enjoyed
most? He never talked about it. I was wondering
what? He was just a happy person. Was he happiest
teaching or administering?
I would say it would be teaching. I cried the last
time he taught class. I think Lynn actually wrote
about it. That was
here at Clemson.
I realized that he loved teaching, he was good at
it.
Was there a course that you think he enjoyed most?
No. He didn't talk about his work. This makes it
hard for me because he didn't, I remember one day he
came in and said, he held a meeting with his faculty
staff He disagreed with what they thought they
should be doing. His idea was different. He went
back the next day, called them together, and told,
you all are right and I'm wrong. I've thought it
over. And they were amazed that they couldn't
believe that anybody would ever admit that they'd
been wrong. And when there came a time once, one
dean, this is like the hard thing, one dean had to go
down for a gang arrest. And he appointed one of his
good friends. And he died. So the good friend was
the acting dean. But Jack didn't feel like he was
the one that should have the job permanently.
And the acting dean was a good friend of Jack's dean
of his school. Jack is the academic dean now. But he
said the acting dean was lazy. And in spite of
having to say no to Dean Hunter's best friend, he
hired another man, brought another man in. And
he's been honored and honored and honored. He was
so great. Rather than just somebody just being
inherited through friendship. And that isn't
easy to do. The old timers, in other words. at the
end of a work day, how could you tell it had been a
good day or not a good day for him?
I think it's just routine to have him come home and
very seldom ever say anything for a comment.
Anyway, he just acted like he was glad to be home.
And the dog in the oxbow told him he was coming. The
dog would hear the car, bang the floor with his
table, look at me, keep looking at me, and Jack
would drive up in the garage, and the dog and I would
go to the door, and I would stick my head up for a kiss
right here, and the dog would put his paws up on
Jack's knee, and Jack would pat his head. That was
our routine. The dog knew. And when Jack was in the
hospital, you know, we had fired Willie, this same
dog, and Willie came back to the house while Jack
was in Houston with him there. Juanita was still
there. The dog carried on so that one of them said
she had to put the dog out of the house. He went with
Willie in the car once, and he'd even never go near
Willie again. He didn't like it, instinctively.
Isn't that interesting?
Let's see. You've got enough for me. No, no, no. I
can't talk about what Jack thought or did or felt,
because when we were home, it was just home, and it
wasn't work. OK, now you see, that's an important
characteristic, though, that I'm glad to get in
here. You're saying that, by and large, he kept any
worries, frustrations, and or exuberances, that
he kept those comparatively quiet. Which is bad.
If there's stress and you know that there's a bad
gene in your family, it's bad to get taken that kind
of work. I know a question. And there were people
that were very stressful that he had to associate
with. All right. What was his technique if he
needed to make a key appointment? How did he go
about trying to identify the appropriate person
for that task? Well, he didn't consult me. I
consulted him a few times. No, I don't know. He
didn't appoint a search committee. He didn't? No.
I guess he inquired, and part of it was, He was doing
his homework. He was doing his homework, but he
wasn't making a big issue of it. With whom did he
inquire? I don't know. See, I think that his
technique was to talk directly to people that he
knew would give him a true answer, people that he
really knew. That's why you and McCauley were good
friends, because he knew he could trust him with
any answer. He doesn't want a yes man. And I think he
did his homework always. Also, when he got to Texas
A&M, he had a lot of experience. He had worked up
here through being president of the faculty
senate. It was the biggest honor he ever had. He
told me that the biggest honor I've ever had was
being elected by my peers to be a member of the first
faculty senate. I'm glad you put that in there.
See, that's exactly the kind. Well, that was what
happened. He was a member of the very first faculty
senate, and he said that was the greatest honor
he'd ever had. Alright, now, y'all were here when
Harvey Gant, the first black student, came to
enroll here. Do you remember anything you can
share about those days? Yeah. They knew the
problems that were going on in Arkansas and
Alabama and so forth. They worked. They made it
They worked out a schedule. They had a highway
patrolman at every intersection from where
Harvey was coming from until he entered the
campus. They allowed the national press to be in
the hotel, but not on the campus. And they brought
Harvey up with a highway patrol escort, took him
in, set him up in the Google architecture or
wherever he was, and that was it, period. And
Harvey had a wonderful sense of humor. And when
things weren't going his, you know, if the
students said anything to him, they'd give him all
this freshman jobs to do. He said, you all just keep
doing that to me, and I'll sit by you in the
cafeteria. Which he showed you what a fine person
he was. They did not allow a reporter on campus. I
asked Dr. Williams one day about that, and I asked
him, well, you mean there wasn't a single incident
And as I recall, he said that when Harvey walked
into the field house to register, two sophomore
white male students said, where everybody could
hear, here comes the coon. He said two Clemson
campus police took those two young men to their
room, watched them while they packed their bags,
and took them to the county line and said, if you
ever set foot in this county, you're under arrest.
We're not going to tolerate that. And he said... It
may have happened, see, but he wouldn't have come
home and told me all of that. See the difference?
Yeah, he said there was no problem at all, and he
said there was careful planning by all kinds of
people. And that day, he had one person that was a
member of our supper club who stood up out on the
steps of his building and watched all this taking
place, and Jack didn't have any use for him after
that. Oh. Because he was supposed to have gone
about his business, about being out watching what
was going on. A member of the faculty. And as far as
he was concerned. Now, Jack didn't like
everybody. You know that. He could be nice to
people, but he didn't. I could tell you how the
supper club, the three people, the three men he
liked. He associated with them all for all those
years. There were 12 families in it. He just had the
entertainment. I could... But he liked people
with a sense of humor, that he could joke with and be
friends with. And I think that's why he liked book
wires so much. A book could laugh with him in spite
of all his problems. Now, let's see. Didn't fish.
You all didn't go fishing. You didn't go hunting.
While you were in College Station, did you all take
many vacations?
Well, we took vacations. We usually tried to go
someplace where nobody knew us. Was it primarily
to visit family, or was it to go to... We had to visit
family every year. We had to come back and go to see
our parents. We had to do that. One year, the year we
built this house, we took the parkway and stopped
at every place you could, and we cooked our meals
along outside, and we went to... They did motels
where they had a swimming pool, and we went to the
art museums... And we'd do little things like
that. We went to the Outer Banks, went up and saw the
pageant up there. This is the type of family thing
we did. Saw the pageant, and then we came down to
Outer Banks with the children there where they had
their wild horses and so forth. And he never called
his office here. He would call my sister in the
evening in Cincinnati and tell her where we were in
case something happened in one of the families. He
would report in. to Ohio instead of Clemson. He
never made any contact with the university while
we
were away. We went to Florida one year, and then I
went to the circus museum. That's the type of
vacation we would take with the children. And he
and I just started traveling when When he died,
just going off on a nice vacation. In May, we joined
Hugh and Pinky in London and toured London before
he died in October. London and Scotland.
And one year when we lived in Houston, I said, let's
go to New York and see the Picasso exhibit. And he
acted like I didn't say a word. So I called up Pinky
and I said, would you like to go to New York to see the
Pecanasol exhibit? She said, yes, we'll go when
he's in Colorado. And he could tell the telephone
conversation that she was going with me. And I
said, do you want to go? And he said, well, you've
already picked a date when Hugh's not going to be
available. And so as it turned out, we couldn't get
tickets for that weekend. So that looked like he
was off. And then they added a week. So we added a
week, and we went to New York. We were the last
people to see the Picasso exhibit. But we went to
six Broadway plays. And we had a wonderful time.
You know, what I'm saying is our vacations were not
anything fancy, but they were fun. But Jack was
always quiet. You were around him to know that. He
didn't stir up anything. No, but he always had that
good sense of humor. He was just easy to be with.
Yes. You know, for me, he was just that part of me
that was easy to be with. If we were together,
that's all it meant. That's all it mattered. You
know, I don't know how to tell you all that. You're
going to edit this stuff out, I hope. No, what we're
going to do is try to get this typed up, give it back
to you for you to correct, to... edit to add
subtract what i hope you will do will be to add to it
to fill in any gaps and so let's see and let's uh
let's try to draw it to an end as you look back on
those texas a m years what do you think were the most
significant williams the two of you the most
significant williams contributions to what a m is
what it has become. Well, I don't feel like I made
any. I just kept peace and family. And I felt like
his biggest contribution was his staff, the
people that he selected to put the programs
together. And that's Jack's biggest
contribution. He knows how to do that. I think it's
natural for him to not want credit for himself, but
to be able to pick a team. Do you agree with that?
Well, I think you're being too modest I hope that
the team was pretty good, but it was the leader of
that team that really mattered to all of us. I felt
like he was very fortunate in the people that were
there that he could get to work with him and put his
programs together. And I don't know where, some of
the things, I don't know whose idea it was. The
Galveston program, who's that? John Calhoun's, I
assume. Don't you think that he was his? No. you
know, different people made their
contributions, and he was willing to follow
through and develop anything he could, but his
biggest contribution was the people that he
worked with, you know, that he gave the
responsibility to. In 1976, when the board of
directors, I guess they were still called, we'll
call them regents now, when they were going to
recreate the system, and there needed then to be a
president appointed, Whom did Dr. Williams
recommend be the president?
No, no, no. Dr. Williams is going to be the
chancellor. They're recreating that job. But who
did he recommend? He recommended John Calhoun.
You know that. Well, that's what I thought. Yeah,
you know that.
He knew all these wonderful people in publishing.
We're talking about Frank Wardlow now. Okay. He
knew all these wonderful people in publishing.
And we would be invited over for dinner and sit
there and have an evening with all these marvelous
people. You know, it was just fascinating to these
people that he knew and to hear Frank Wardlow tell
his stories. He was one of the most entertaining
people I had ever heard. One of the most
interesting men I've ever heard. And that
marvelous South Carolina accent. Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. It was just fabulous to listen to. And I
went to his service up here when it happened. And
somebody said, how many people were there? The
McCauley's were with me.